---
title: 'BIBM2015'
comments: true
layout: post
tags:
    - BIBM
---

Non-negative matrix factorization: Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF), also non-negative matrix approximation is a group of algorithms in multivariate analysis and linear algebra where a matrix V is factorized into (usually) two matrices W and H, with the property that all three matrices have no negative elements. Since the problem is not exactly solvable in general, it is commonly approximated numerically

# Overview

The CRAN Task View for [high performance and parallel computing](https://cran.r-project.org/web/views/HighPerformanceComputing.html)

Most of these packages cite or identify one or more of [snow](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/snow/index.html), [Rmpi](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/Rmpi/index.html), multicore, [foreach](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/foreach/index.html) as relevant parallelization infratructure. Here we will focus on snow, multicore and parallel (Basically a combination of snow and multicore) packages

- snow: 
Simple Network of Workstations, parallel processing is made possible Via `system("Rscript")` or similar to launch a new process on the current machine or a similar machine with an identical R installation. Communication between master and worker processes is usually done via sockets. snow also takes advantage of fork and Rmpi mensioned below.

- multicore:
Parallel processing is made possible by forking, which creates a new R process by taking a complete copy of the master process.

- Rmpi:
Using OS-level facilities to set up a means to send tasks to other members of a group of machines.

- `detectCores` is function used to detect number of phisical cores/CPUs in a system. The result is system dependent. 

# Parallelized replacements of apply functions
Parallel version of apply function, including `parLapply, parSapply, parApply, mclapply` ect. 






